Consent for Dual Agency

{in this frm, tre word "sale incdes Tandord’ buyer includes tenant’ and "purchaser “sale” includes Yeas

 

When Dual Agency May Oceur
The possibility of Dual Agency arises when:

1) The buyer is interested in a property listed by a real estate broker; and
2) The seller’ agent and the buyer’s agent are affiliated withthe same real estate broker.

Important Considerations Before Making a Decision About Dual Agency
A broker or the broker's designee, acting as a dual agent does not exclusively represent either the seller ot
buyer; there may be a conflict of interest because the interes of the seller and buyer may be different ot
adverse. AS adual agent, the real estate broker does not owe undivided loyalty to either the seller or buyer.

Before the buyer and seller can proceed to be represented by a broker acting as a dual agent, they must both sign
Consent for Dual Agency. If the buyer has previously signed this Consent for Dual Ageney, the buyer must
affirm the buyer's consent for the purchase of a particular property before an offer to purchase is presented to
ihe seller. If the seller has previously signed Consent for Dual Agency, the seller must affirm the seller's
consent for the sale of the property (0 a particular buyer before accepting an offer to purchase the property. The
affirmation is contained on Page 2 ofthis form,

Your Choices Concerning Dual Agency
Ina possible dual agency situation, the buyer and seller have the following options

1. Consent in writing to dual ageney. If all parties consent in writing, the real esate broker or the broker's
Jesignee (the “dual agent”) shall assign one real estate agent affliated with the broker to represent the seller
{he seller's “intra-company agent”) and another agent affiliated with the broker to represent the buyer (the
buyer’s “intra-company agent”). Inra-company agents are required to provide the same services to their clients
that agents provide in tansactions not involving dual ageney, including advising their clients as to price and
negotiation strategy

2” Refuse to consent to dual agency. If either party refuses to consent in writing to dual agency, the seal estate
broker must terminate the brokerage elationship for that particular property with the buyer, the seller, or both, IF the
seller terminates the brokerage agreement, the seller must then either represent him or herself of atrange we
represented by another real estale company. [the buyer terminates the brokerage agreement the buyer may choose
notto berepresented but simply receive assistance fromthe seller's agent, fromanothera gent inthatcompany, or from
4 subagent from another company. Alternatively, the buyer may choose to enter into a written brokerage
agreement with adifferent company

lof?